Motivated by the career ambition of becoming a top research engineer in the AI industry, I am eager to go after a master’s degree in your graduate program. My research interest in AI was developed during my undergraduate studies at Tsinghua University, where I was admitted into the special Fundamental Science Class of Mathematics and Physics and have engaged in a range of research projects regarding the application of machine learning and deep learning algorithms.

Benefitting from the program’s emphasis on mathematical training, I have developed strong analytical and reasoning skills to deal with real-world problems, which was evidenced in the 2019 Mathematical Contest in Modeling where I collaborated with teammates to solve the opioid crisis problem. Through mathematical abstraction and model building, we created a comprehensive and detailed strategy that will allow the institution to identify the potential source of the drug crisis and counter them throughout the requested states in the USA. At the early stage, we proposed a modified logistic model to predict drug reports in the future for each county and state. As the problem grew, a combination of statistical techniques was applied to the socio-economic dataset to gain original insights on the contributing factors for opioid use and addiction in the social and economic domain. By taking these factors into account, we finally created an adjusted multivariate regression model for drug reports prediction which achieved considerable accuracy. In the whole process, Python programs and Mathematica scripts written by us have played a key role in data processing, model building, parameter estimation, and trend prediction.

Despite a major in mathematics and physics, the tailored computer science courses offered by the program have equipped me with a solid foundation in programming and software development. Ever since the first year, through the C++ programming course, I have been able to go through the whole software development process by designing and implementing a supermarket sales management system. Entering the third year of my undergraduate program with a computer science track, I have been exposed to more courses and research topics in computer science from the basics of programming to artificial intelligence. My solid quantitative background contributed to my seamless transition from mathematics to computer science while getting exposure to research areas in machine learning and deep learning. In the course project aimed at developing a deep learning algorithm to solve the doodle recognition problem in a Kaggle contest, we implemented the Mobile Net model (Sandler et al.,2018) on image data and combined other data including nationality, time factor and etc. using random forest to achieve a robust model which achieved a robust model with satisfactory accuracy in recognition. In another project featuring adversarial examples, we reproduced the Fast Feature Fool model (Mopuri et al., 2017), a data-independent method to generate image agnostic perturbations for a range of CNNs trained for object recognition. By discussing the drawbacks of CNN models and exploring the approach to improve fooling performance using this method, I have developed a better understanding of the CNNs and their features. When it came to the project in which we were required to design a movie recommendation system, I have been capable of developing a customized machine learning model based on factorization machines to predict users’ movie tastes. Every small step in practical projects gradually helped me to bridge the gaps between theoretical knowledge and practical application.

Besides attaining basic knowledge and skills through the coursework, I have been keen to build on my interest in research from a variety of research projects by applying to join professors’ labs as a research assistant. It was these rewarding projects that turned my initial interest in learning into a passion for research. After joining Professor Sun’s research group, I have contributed to several research projects led by him and his graduate students, among which two were worthy of highlighting. In the first project, I helped reproduce and adapt the TransNet recommendation model for diner reviews to the livestreaming system which greatly improved its personalized experience for livestreaming services. In another project, I assisted the graduate students in optimizing the strategies of resource distribution in the CDN for better QoE by considering users’ heterogeneity. 

During the summer of 2019, I joined the lab of professor Yuan at University at Buffalo – SUNY as a research assistant. With the ultimate goal of finding the solution to automatic disease diagnosis with IFE images based on the few labeled data and comparatively large unlabeled data, I conducted extensive experiments to select the ideal combination of generative model and classifier from a group of candidates. Through repeated comparison and analysis, I finally proposed the generative active learning framework consisting of a Gaussian mixture model and a rule-based classifier which utilized simple and time-saving expert labeling process to enrich informative labeled data for training and avoided overfitting through low dimension representation. The paper produced from this research has been submitted and is currently under review. Besides giving me a great sense of achievement, this research journey has enlightened me as to the versatility of machine learning algorithms in the industries, and further reinforced my determination to delve deeper into the research fields of AI by pursuing a master’s degree in computer science.

Of all the programs that I have looked at, I believe the MS program in Computer Science at Stony Brook University is the best fit for my study and research interests, considering your department’s research highlights. In addition to expanding advanced knowledge in computer science at your program, I am looking forward to working with your productive professors, as I believe a systematic training in research skills under their supervision will get me fully prepared for a successful research career in the future. If admitted, I wish to focus on the applications of AI techniques in the medical and healthcare industries to simplify the diagnosis process and compensate for the shortage of medical resources in many countries. My previous research experience has given me a direction to carry out further research in relevant areas. For example, we can apply recommendation system techniques to model patient profiles in precision medicine. Together with automatic diagnostics, we will be able to provide personalized treatment to patients while making the most of doctors’ time. With my creativity and practical skills, I will bring to your program not only innovative ideas but also fruitful research outcomes. Meanwhile, I will contribute to your community by actively participating in teaching and voluntary activities.
